docusaurus/docs/guides/tutorial-basics/basic.mdx, before:

# Basic Tutorials

## Tutorial 1

This tutorial will show you how to set up a basic React component that uses `eth-hooks`. We'll be using create-react-app with typescript.

:::tip

If you prefer a visual walk-through, check out the [video guide](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VsPraG4KhXY) this tutorial is based on.

:::

### Setup

#### Install create-react-app with typescript

Enter the folder that you want your application to be stored in. Then in the terminal run the command:

```bash
yarn create-react-app eth-hooks-tutorial --template typescript
```

After installation is complete, enter the new folder:

```bash
cd eth-hooks-tutorial
```

#### Update to yarn 3

Before we install `eth-hooks` and `ethers` packages, we'll upgrade the `yarn` package manager.
We recommend using `yarn` 3 because it's faster than using `npm`.

##### yarn update step 1

To update run this command in your project folder:

```bash
yarn set version berry
```

This tells `yarn` to use the latest version (in this case, version `berry`).

##### yarn update step 2

In your project folder (here, our project folder is `eth-hooks-tutorial`) find the `.yarnrc.yml` file.
In this file, add the following line of code:

```typescript
nodeLinker: node - modules;
```

This tells `yarn` to use the `node-modules` folder to store all packages.

##### yarn update step 3

Finally, install the new `yarn` version:

```bash
yarn install
```

#### Add packages

Now let's install the packages. We can install providers, `ethers`, and `eth-hooks` all in one line of code.
In your project folder, run:

```bash
yarn add ethers '@ethersproject/providers' eth-hooks
```

#### Add context to your project

We need to import `EthersAppContext` in our main app so we can access the Ethereum network and `eth-hooks` anywhere in our application.
In your `index.tsx` file:

```typescript
import { EthersAppContext } from 'eth-hooks/context';
```

Then wrap your `App` component, like so:

```typescript
React.DOM.render(
  <React.StrictMode>
    <EthersAppContext>
      <App />
    </EthersAppContext>
  </React.StrictMode>,
  document.getElemenetById('root')
);
```

That's it. Now you can use context throughout your app.

### Build your component

Let's replace the create-react-app startup page. We will build a new component and show it on `localhost:3000`.

Add a `component` folder in your `src`.

Let's create a new file called `Main.tsx` inside your `component` folder.

Next, we'll create a functional component:

```typescript
import React, { FC } from 'react';

export const Main: FC = () => {};
```

#### Setup an RPC

To read and write to the Ethereum network, you'll need a [remote procedure call or RPC](https://ethereum.org/en/developers/docs/apis/json-rpc/).
For our purposes in this tutorial, we'll use the RPC provided by [scaffold-eth](https://github.com/scaffold-eth/scaffold-eth).

Next, let's create a `config` folder inside our `src` folder.

Then let's create a new file called `appConfig.ts` inside the `config` folder.

Now we need to set up a static connection to the Ethereum network. In your `appConfig.ts`:

```typescript
import { StaticJsonRpcProvider } from '@ethersproject/providers';
```

Here's how we'll setup the static provider from the [scaffold-eth](https://github.com/scaffold-eth/scaffold-eth) RPC.

```typescript
export const mainnetScaffoldEthProvider = new StaticJsonRpcProvider('https://rpc.scaffoldeth.io:48544');
```

We can use this variable throughout our application.

#### Your first React component with eth-hooks

Now, let's go back into our `Main.tsx` file and import the RPC:

```typescript
import { mainnetScaffoldEthProvider } from '../config/appConfig';
```

_What should we do next?_

Let's do something simple, but also useful.

Let's get the balance from a given Ethereum address and show it on our frontend (if you build Dapps, you'll be doing this all the time!)

We're going to need to import our first `eth-hook`:

```typescript
import { useEthersAdaptorFromProviderOrSigners } from 'eth-hooks';
```

We'll add the following to our `Main` component:

```typescript
const [adaptor] = useEthersAdaptorFromProviderOrSigners(mainnetScaffoldEthProvider);
```

`adaptor` is a utility function that wraps the signer, adaptor, chainId, and a few other things we need.

Now, let's add the `useBalance` hook.

```typescript
import { useBalance, mainnetScaffoldEthProvider } from '../config/appConfig';
```

And create a variable:

```typescript
const [balance] = useBalance;
```

We can also add an update option, allowing us to update the `useBalance` hook when we need:

```typescript
import { defualtUpdateOptions } from 'eth-hooks/models';
```

Let's update our `balance` function with a few extras.

```typescript
const [balance] = useBalance('0xb5dFcB9EABD2D4CB96Ae86d3Fc290a70461b4e42', defualtUpdateOptions(), {
  adaptorEnabled: true,
  adaptor,
});
```

Here, we pass in an Ethereum address that we want to read the balance from. Then we use the `defaultUpdateOptions` to keep our balance up-to-date.
For this example, we are not using the adaptor that is included with `EthersAppContext`. Instead, we are passing in our own mainnet adaptor.

**We will cover using `EthersAppContext` later.**

Now let's convert the balance to ether:

```typescript
const result = ethers.utils.formatEther(balance);
```

Then we'll display this balance in our app, like this:

```typescript
  return
  <div>
    The ether balance of account: 0xb5dFcB9EABD2D4CB96Ae86d3Fc290a70461b4e42 is {result.toString()}
  </div>
};
```

Check out the `Main.tsx` component in its final form:

```typescript
import React, { FC } from 'react';
import { useBalance, mainnetScaffoldEthProvider } from '../config/appConfig';
import { useEthersAdaptorFromProviderOrSigners } from 'eth-hooks';
import { defualtUpdateOptions } from 'eth-hooks/models';

export const Main: FC = () => {
  const [adaptor] = useEthersAdaptorFromProviderOrSigners(mainnetScaffoldEthProvider);

  const [balance] = useBalance('0xb5dFcB9EABD2D4CB96Ae86d3Fc290a70461b4e42', defualtUpdateOptions(), {
    adaptorEnabled: true,
    adaptor,
  });

  const result = ethers.utils.formatEther(balance);

  return (
  <div>
    <p>"The ether balance of account: " 0xb5dFcB9EABD2D4CB96Ae86d3Fc290a70461b4e42 "is " {result.toString()}<p>
  </div>;
  )
};
```

### Render your component

Now, let's go back into our `App.tsx` file and import `Main.tsx`:

```typescript
import { Main } from './components/Main';
```

And render the component:

```typescript
function App() {
  return (
    <div>
      <header>
        <Main />
      </header>
    </div>
  );
}
export default App;
```

Now checkout your startup page at `localhost:3000`.

Cool! You made it 🙌

Commit message:

Features/docusaurus updates (#198)
* added coming soon message to advanced tutorial

* updates sentences

* added emojis for flavor

* added MIT lic description

* renamed and updated for clarity

* fixed folder names for clarity

* added a dedicated page for every hook, modified overview, fixed typos

* updated API readme

* each hook page linked to respective api docs

Co-authored-by: Shravan Sunder <ShravanSunder@users.noreply.github.com>

docusaurus/docs/guides/tutorial-basics/basic.mdx, after:

# How to show an Ethereum balance on your frontend

This tutorial will show you how to set up a React component that uses `eth-hooks`. We'll be using create-react-app with typescript.

After setup, we'll get an account balance on the Ethereum blockchain and show it on our frontend (_pretty cool stuff!_)

:::tip

If you prefer a visual walk-through, check out the [video guide](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VsPraG4KhXY) this tutorial is based on.

:::

### 🚩 Setup

#### Install create-react-app with typescript

Enter the folder where you want your application to be stored. Then in the terminal run the command:

```bash
yarn create-react-app eth-hooks-tutorial --template typescript
```

After installation is complete, enter the new folder:

```bash
cd eth-hooks-tutorial
```

#### Update to yarn 3

Before we install `eth-hooks` and `ethers` packages, we'll upgrade the `yarn` package manager.
We recommend using `yarn` 3 because it's faster than using `npm`.

##### yarn update step 1

To update run this command in your project folder:

```bash
yarn set version berry
```

This tells `yarn` to use the latest version (in this case, version `berry`).

##### yarn update step 2

In your project folder (here, our project folder is `eth-hooks-tutorial`) find the `.yarnrc.yml` file.
In this file, add the following line of code:

```typescript
nodeLinker: node - modules;
```

This tells `yarn` to use the `node-modules` folder to store all packages.

##### yarn update step 3

Finally, install the new `yarn` version:

```bash
yarn install
```

#### Add packages

Now let's install the packages. We can install providers, `ethers`, and `eth-hooks` all in one line of code.
In your project folder, run:

```bash
yarn add ethers '@ethersproject/providers' eth-hooks
```

#### Add context to your project

We need to import `EthersAppContext` in our main app so we can access the Ethereum network and `eth-hooks` anywhere in our application.
In your `index.tsx` file:

```typescript
import { EthersAppContext } from 'eth-hooks/context';
```

Then wrap your `App` component, like so:

```typescript
React.DOM.render(
  <React.StrictMode>
    <EthersAppContext>
      <App />
    </EthersAppContext>
  </React.StrictMode>,
  document.getElemenetById('root')
);
```

That's it. Now you can use context throughout your app.

### 🚩 Build your component

Let's replace the create-react-app startup page. We will build a new component and show it on `localhost:3000`.

Add a `component` folder in your `src`.

Let's create a new file called `Main.tsx` inside your `component` folder.

Next, we'll create a functional component:

```typescript
import React, { FC } from 'react';

export const Main: FC = () => {};
```

#### Setup an RPC

To read and write to the Ethereum network, you'll need a [remote procedure call or RPC](https://ethereum.org/en/developers/docs/apis/json-rpc/).
For our purposes in this tutorial, we'll use the RPC provided by [scaffold-eth](https://github.com/scaffold-eth/scaffold-eth).

Next, let's create a `config` folder inside our `src` folder.

Then let's create a new file called `appConfig.ts` inside the `config` folder.

Now we need to set up a static connection to the Ethereum network. In your `appConfig.ts`:

```typescript
import { StaticJsonRpcProvider } from '@ethersproject/providers';
```

Here's how we'll set up the static provider from the [scaffold-eth](https://github.com/scaffold-eth/scaffold-eth) RPC.

```typescript
export const mainnetScaffoldEthProvider = new StaticJsonRpcProvider('https://rpc.scaffoldeth.io:48544');
```

We can use this variable throughout our application.

#### Your first React component with eth-hooks

Now, let's go back into our `Main.tsx` file and import the RPC:

```typescript
import { mainnetScaffoldEthProvider } from '../config/appConfig';
```

### 🚩 Get an Ethereum balance

Let's do something simple, but also useful.

**Let's get the balance from a given Ethereum address and show it on our frontend (if you build Dapps, you'll be doing this all the time!)**

We're going to need to import our first `eth-hook`:

```typescript
import { useEthersAdaptorFromProviderOrSigners } from 'eth-hooks';
```

We'll add the following to our `Main` component:

```typescript
const [adaptor] = useEthersAdaptorFromProviderOrSigners(mainnetScaffoldEthProvider);
```

`adaptor` is a utility function that wraps the signer, adaptor, chainId, and a few other things we need.

Now, let's add the `useBalance` hook.

```typescript
import { useBalance, mainnetScaffoldEthProvider } from '../config/appConfig';
```

And create a variable:

```typescript
const [balance] = useBalance;
```

We can also add an update option, allowing us to update the `useBalance` hook when we need:

```typescript
import { defualtUpdateOptions } from 'eth-hooks/models';
```

Let's update our `balance` function with a few extras.

```typescript
const [balance] = useBalance('0xb5dFcB9EABD2D4CB96Ae86d3Fc290a70461b4e42', defualtUpdateOptions(), {
  adaptorEnabled: true,
  adaptor,
});
```

Here, we pass in an Ethereum address that we want to read the balance from. Then we use the `defaultUpdateOptions` to keep our balance up-to-date.
For this example, we are not using the adaptor that is included with `EthersAppContext`. Instead, we are passing in our own mainnet adaptor.

**We will cover using `EthersAppContext` later.**

Now let's convert the balance to ether:

```typescript
const result = ethers.utils.formatEther(balance);
```

Then we'll display this balance in our app, like this:

```typescript
  return
  <div>
    The ether balance of account: 0xb5dFcB9EABD2D4CB96Ae86d3Fc290a70461b4e42 is {result.toString()}
  </div>
};
```

Check out the `Main.tsx` component in its final form:

```typescript
import React, { FC } from 'react';
import { useBalance, mainnetScaffoldEthProvider } from '../config/appConfig';
import { useEthersAdaptorFromProviderOrSigners } from 'eth-hooks';
import { defualtUpdateOptions } from 'eth-hooks/models';

export const Main: FC = () => {
  const [adaptor] = useEthersAdaptorFromProviderOrSigners(mainnetScaffoldEthProvider);

  const [balance] = useBalance('0xb5dFcB9EABD2D4CB96Ae86d3Fc290a70461b4e42', defualtUpdateOptions(), {
    adaptorEnabled: true,
    adaptor,
  });

  const result = ethers.utils.formatEther(balance);

  return (
  <div>
    <p>"The ether balance of account: " 0xb5dFcB9EABD2D4CB96Ae86d3Fc290a70461b4e42 "is " {result.toString()}<p>
  </div>;
  )
};
```

### 🚩 Render your component

Now, let's go back into our `App.tsx` file and import `Main.tsx`:

```typescript
import { Main } from './components/Main';
```

And render the component:

```typescript
function App() {
  return (
    <div>
      <header>
        <Main />
      </header>
    </div>
  );
}
export default App;
```

Now checkout your frontend at `localhost:3000`.

Awesome work! You made it 🙌
